
============================================================
WEB CONTENT
============================================================
IU Policies – Iqra University
Meet the Visionaries Behind IU
Home
IU Policies
Office of Registrar
Transcript Verification
Degree Verification
IU Policies
Academic Calendar
Hamburger Toggle Menu
Academic Policy Manual
Policy for Lodging Complaint
Gender Harassment Policy
Support & Services for Students with Disability
Social Media Policy
Drugs and Tobacco Abuse Policy
Punishment(s) for Disciplinary Breach/Affair
Policy Regarding The Change of Registration of Courses
IU Volunteers Policy
IU Grievance Policy
Gender Harassment Policy
Iqra University believes in equality which is among core values that we foster. Since establishment we are equal opportunity employers and as academic institution we condemn any sort of discrimination.
Since the law (Act No. IV OF 2010) made public on March 11, 2010 we are strictly complying to the act mentioned.
As per Directives of the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan the Gender Harassment Policy is being made known to all students and employees along with complaint form.
Click Here to Download the Policy and Complaint Form.
Click Here to Download the HEC Policy on Protection Against Sexual Harassment in Higher Education Institutions.
Click Here to Download the Protection Against Harassment Of Women At The Workplace ACT 2010.
Click Here to Download the Amended Protection Against Harassment Of Women At The Workplace ACT 2010.
Anti-Harassment
Committee
In line with the HEC Policy on Protection against Sexual Harassment in Higher Education Institutions (2020), the Competent Authority is pleased to constitute the Inquiry and the Appellate Committees to address cases of sexual harassment.
Campus
Focal Person(s)
Members of Inquiry Committee
Main Campus
Mr. Aseem Majid Rizvi
(Registrar)
Prof. Dr. Umme Sumayya
Dr. Noorunisa Khan
Gulshan Campus
Prof. Dr. Zubair Ahmed
(Campus Director)
Dr. Reema Frooghi
Prof. Dr. Razia Fakir
M9 Campus
Dr. Mirza Imran Baig
(Campus Director)
Ms. Komal Zafar
Dr. Hira Atif
North Campus
Prof. Dr. Syed Ali Raza
(Campus Director)
Dr. Salima Ahsan
Prof. Shehla Naeem Zafar
Airport Campus
Prof. Dr. Ather Iqbal
(Campus Director)
Dr. Erum Hafeez
Ms. Uzma Atif Jafri
Hyderabad Campus
Prof. Dr. Imtiaz Hussain
(Campus Director)
Dr. Reshman
Dr. Annam Inayat
H-9 Campus, ISB
Mr. Ibrahim Khan
(Campus Director)
Mr. Naveed Kabir
Dr. Kishwar Sultana
Chak Shahzad Campus, ISB
Prof. Dr. Ayub Siddiqui
(Campus Director)
Dr. Mueen A. Zafar
Ms. Surriya Estella
Campus
Chairperson
Members of Appellate Committee
Universitywide
Prof. Dr. Anjum Bano Kazimi
Prof. Dr. Anjum Bano Kazimi
Prof. Dr. Muhammad Zaki Rashidi
Dr. Muhammad Zubair
Dr. Ayub Siddiqui
Support & Services For Students
with Disability
We at Iqra University values diverse identities and experiences, and honors disability as an important aspect of human diversity. Following the HEC Policy for Student with Disabilities at HEI 2021, we affirmed our commitment to ensure that each member of the University’s community shall be permitted to work and/or study in an environment free from any kind of illegal discrimination – including race, color, sex, pregnancy, religion, age, disability, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression and veteran status. We aim to provide equal learning opportunities to students with disabilities regardless of their functional and/or physical limitations to foster a conducive and supportive learning environment for students with disabilities.
Campus-Wise Disability Coordinators
Campus
Committee Members
Email Address
Main Campus
• Dr. Ammar Siddiqui (Coordinator)
• Ms. Bushra Tufail (Coordinator)
ammar.siddiqui@iqra.edu.pk
bushratufail@iqra.edu.pk
Gulshan Campus
• Mr. Younis Fareed (Coordinator)
• Dr. Rozina Sewani (Coordinator)
younis.fareid@iqra.edu.pk
rozina.sewani@iqra.edu.pk
North Campus
• Dr. Salima Ahsan (Coordinator)
• Dr. Muhammad Imran (Coordinator)
salima.ahsan@iqra.edu.pk
dr.imran@iqra.edu.pk
Airport Campus
• Dr. Meer Rujab Naseem (Coordinator)
• Ms. Uzma Atif Jafri (Coordinator)
rujabnaseem@iqra.edu.pk
uzma.atif@iqra.edu.pk
Bahria Town Campus
• Ms. Komal Zafar (Coordinator)
• Mr. Shahroz Shamim (Coordinator)
komal.zafar@iqra.edu.pk
shahroz.shamim@iqra.edu.pk
H-9 Campus, ISB
• Dr. Majid (Coordinator)
• Dr. Ayesha Rehan (Coordinator)
majid.ali@iqraisb.edu.pk
ayesha.rehan@iqraisb.edu.pk
Chak Shahzad Campus, ISB
• Dr. Ishtiaq Malik (Coordinator)
• Dr. Anam Aman (Coordinator)
ishtiaq.malik@iqrauni.edu.pk
anam.aman@iqrauni.edu.pk
Click Here to Download the HEC Policy For Students with Disabilities.
IU Policy for Students with Disabilities.
IU Disability Assessment Form.
Social Media Policy
All students of Iqra University are required to abide by the following rules/ guidelines for the use of social media on the internet
Students are not allowed to create any page or ID that resembles with any of the Iqra University official page(s) and/or site and/or ID.
Students are not allowed to create, represent or join any political or religious group being identified as the student of Iqra University.
Students are not allowed to discuss or post comments about any staff or faculty member of Iqra University and their family members on any social media site.
Students must seek official approval from the management before putting any official information on their site/Page(s). However, approval is not needed if the information has been taken from official site.
Posting or displaying of any content such as images or text that in any way defame the university, its faculty, staff or other students is strictly prohibited. All postings are just like speaking at a public forum hence the dignity of Iqra University must not be compromised.
Policy matters of the university must not be talked about on any social media site.
Students are not allowed to use social media being Iqra representative (s) for fund raising (requesting/collecting funds) within / outside the University for any Natural Calamity until and unless they are permitted by the Office of the Registrar.
Safeguarding passwords and IDs are students’ personal responsibility and will not be considered as an alibi in case of violation of social media policy.
Any other act/deed/discussion on social media which may bring defamation to Iqra University.
Drug & Tabacco Abuse Policy
Iqra University promotes healthy practices for social and mental wellbeing of its stakeholders. It strictly prohibits the use, production, sale, distribution, dispensing, or possession of illegal drugs on its premises (campuses, classrooms, hostels, playgrounds, libraries, laboratories, cafeterias & transport, etc.). The university abides by the HEC’s Policy on Drug and Tobacco Abuse 2021.
Click Here to Download the HEC Policy on Drugs and Tobacco Abuse in HEIs (2021).
You can also report your complaints (related to Drug and Tobacco Abuse) at dedicated Helpline: 02138734088
Punishment(s) For Disciplinary Breach/Affair
Failure to follow the above guidelines would be considered as violation of University Policies and disciplinary action will be taken that may lead to termination of admission from the University.
Policy Regarding The Changes of Registration
of Courses
It should be noted that there are no charges for change of courses, sections and timings as long as the online system is open. The students are advised in their own interest to carry out the registration of courses before the University locks and closes the online registration. The online registration will be closed four days before the official date of commencement of the semester.
The following policy regarding the change of registration of courses is approved for all programs after the close of online registration:
Any modification in registration after the close of online registration and up to the end of the first week of commencement of classes. Rs. 500/- per subject.
Any modification during the second week of the commencement of classes. Rs. 1,000/- per subject.
Late registration for any reasons after the close of online registration. Rs. 500/- per subject.
Late registration for any reason in the second week after the commencement of classes. Rs. 1,000/- per subject.
Note: Please note that no registration or change registration will be allowed after the end of the second week of commencement of classes.
Any changes made after the closing of online registration is subject to availability of the desired course / section. The payment will be made in the Askari Bank located on the Campus. The Programme Coordinators will change only after the student submits the paid fee voucher.
IU Volunteers Policy
The event organizers need to request for volunteer support from Iqra University (IU) at least 10 days in advance with JD.
IU volunteers will be wearing IU badges/blazers during the event and may wear other brands’ item for publicity.
The event organizers will provide certificate of participation to the volunteers and acknowledgment in vote of thanks mentioning Iqra University.
IU volunteers will provide support for maximum 06 hr shift between 9:00am-11:00pm.
Food and refreshment for the volunteers will be provided by the event organizers.
IU or volunteers will not be held responsible for any damage and loss incurred during the event.
IU volunteers will only perform duties outlined in the job description.
Transportation will be provided by the organizers for late night events.
IU volunteers’ safety will be the responsibility of the event organizers.
Policy For Lodging Complaint
Introduction
Iqra University is committed to maintaining a conducive environment for learning, teaching, and working. This includes ensuring that our staff, faculty, and students can communicate and voice concerns freely, with the assurance of confidentiality, fairness, and due process. In line with this commitment, we present this policy document to guide how complaints against faculty and staff are to be lodged and handled.
Policy Statement
Iqra University does not entertain anonymous complaints against faculty and staff members. Complaints from IU employees terminated from job or involved in any wrongdoing during their job will not be entertained.
Complaints from people who are not associated with Iqra University in any capacity will not be entertained.
Complaints from Students expelled from the University on disciplinary or academic grounds will not be entertained either.
All complaints must be lodged by an individual who identifies themselves with complete details, thus taking responsibility for the accusations being made.
Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that complaints lodged are valid and genuine, and not based on hearsay, personal vendetta, or misunderstandings. By requiring the complainant to identify themselves, the policy aims to encourage open, honest communication and safeguard the integrity of the complaint process.
Scope
This policy applies to all students, faculty, and staff members of Iqra University.
Policy Details
Complaint Lodging: Complaints against students, faculty and staff must be lodged formally, in writing, by the individual making the complaint. The complaint should include the complainant’s full name, their role or position within Iqra University, and contact details. Complaints shall be submitted at the following email addresses: For Staff & Faculty: complain.employee@iqra.edu.pk For Students: complain.students@iqra.edu.pk
Confidentiality: Iqra University will maintain the confidentiality of the complainant to the extent permitted by law and to the extent possible while conducting a thorough investigation.
Protection from Retaliation: Iqra University will not tolerate any form of retaliation against individuals who lodge a complaint in good faith. Any instances of suspected retaliation should be reported immediately.
Complaint Review: Complaints will be reviewed and investigated by committee constituted by the University, depending on the nature of the complaint. The complainant may be contacted for further details or clarification as needed.
False Allegations: Iqra University takes allegations against faculty and staff seriously. False allegations can harm innocent individuals and undermine the integrity of this process. Anyone found to have made false allegations deliberately may face disciplinary action.
IU Grievance Policy
Grievance Definition:
A student grievance pertains to any expressed concern, issue, or dissatisfaction raised by the student(s) regarding their studies, university environment, and their expectations from the university and its management. The University is obligated to ensure a safe, conducive teaching / learning environment and uphold respect, among other responsibilities.
Purpose:
The main purpose of the IU Grievance Policy is to provide a formal procedure for students to address complaints or grievances related to academic, administrative, or interpersonal issues within the university community. These policies typically outline the steps that individuals should take when they have a concern or complaint, including ‘who to contact’, ‘how to file a grievance’, and the process for resolution. The aim is to ensure fairness, transparency, and accountability in addressing grievances and maintaining a positive and supportive learning and working environment within the university.
Scope:
This policy is designed to be comprehensive, addressing a wide range of issues that may impact the well-being and success of students within the university environment. It relates particularly to grievances about actions taken by the respondent that directly affect the grievant, or conduct by the respondent specifically targeted at the grievant. It is not intended to conflict with the policies and procedures that apply across the university.
The scope of this policy includes:
Academic matters:
Grievances related to grades, academic integrity, course content, and academic policies and procedures.
Administrative issues:
Grievances related to administrative decisions, such as financial aid, disciplinary actions, etc.
Discrimination
Grievances related to discrimination or retaliation based on protected characteristics such as race, age, gender, disability, genetic information, creed, religion, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions, or other protected status.
Interpersonal conflicts:
Grievances related to conflicts or disputes between individuals within the university fraternity.
Other concerns:
Grievance policies may also cover other types of concerns or complaints not specifically listed above, as long as they are relevant to the university community and its mission.
Note:
The policy shall not be applicable on issues that have been collectively agreed upon with the University’s senior management and council members. Grievances related to sexual harassment are not covered under this policy. Such complaints will be investigated following the guidelines outlined in the HEC Policy on Sexual Harassment and processed under the University’s Sexual Harassment Policy issued vide Notification No. Reg. Off/Notification/2024/27 dated March 25, 2024
Key Functions:
To conduct comprehensive investigations into all written complaints received by the IU Grievance Committee.
To guarantee fair investigations and prompt resolution of complaints.
To offer recommendations to the Competent Authority.
The policy encompasses the following categories of grievances:
Academic:
Academic issues such as academic decisions, structure and content of courses, quality of teaching, research supervision, intellectual property, and issues of cheating and plagiarism.
Non-Academic:
Administrative concerns, such as policies, procedures, decisions, and access to required resources.
Intimidation or harassment by other fellow students or staff members.
Collective complaints from several students facing the same issue.
This policy is underpinned by the following principles:
The grievance  procedure  does  not  replace  regular  dialogue  with  the concerned individuals. You should try to settle most concerns by speaking with your concerned university officials.
All students, part of the process will be treated appropriately and with decency and respect. Everyone has the right to be heard and to express their opinions.
The goal is to settle issues as swiftly as possible while preserving congenial relationships, instead of blaming and penalizing people in the first place. Throughout the process, one would be urged to find a solution without escalation to the official phases.
The process will be maintained as private and confidential as possible, and information regarding a case will be shared only with individuals who are directly engaged or impacted. This implies that one must not discuss the processes with anybody else at the University except those assigned to handle one’s grievance and one’s designated companion or confidante.
